chore: initial example and walk-through (#1)
terramate-io/terramate-plain-terraform-example: README.md

# initial state

Four directories containing Terraform files describing a VPC and an Instance as Null Provider Resources for two environments `staging` and `prod`.

- `environments/prod/vpc`
- `environments/prod/ec2-instance`
- `environments/staging/vpc`
- `environments/staging/ec2-instance`

# world with terramate

- rename terramate config to disable production safeguards for this demo

>   - `cp terramate.tm.hcl.example terramate.tm.hcl`

Reviewer: terramate.tm.hcl already exists, so either remove the terramate.tm.hcl.example file, or remove this step

Author: removed

- create stacks by detecting terraform configuration
  - `terramate create --all-terraform`
  - This will create a `stacks.tm.hcl` in each directory giving each stack a name and an unique ID (UUID)
- validate stacks are detected by listing them
  - `terramate list`
- commit the new found configuration for Terramate Stacks
  - `git add -A && git commit -m 'feat: initialize Terramate stacks'`
- initialize terraform in all stacks an validate the configuration
  - `terramate run -- terraform init`
  - `terramate run -- terraform validate`

>   - The Terramate configuration in `terramate.tm.hcl` takes care that we cache the providers in a `.tf_plugin_cache_dir` by setting the Terraform environment variable `TF_PLUGIN_CACHE_DIR`. This speeds up `terraform init` phase as each provider version is downloaded only once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The Terramate configuration in `terramate.tm.hcl` ensures that we cache the providers in a `.tf_plugin_cache_dir` by setting the Terraform environment variable `TF_PLUGIN_CACHE_DIR`. This speeds up `terraform init` phase as each provider version is downloaded only once.
```

that's actually a pretty neat trick btw

  - We can ignore the deprecation warning as we use the depricated null data source for demo reasons.
- run a plan in all stacks
  - `terramate --log-level info run -- terraform plan`
  - log level info enables printing the name of the stack being executed for each stack available
  - Note: Outputs and logging will be improved in one of the next upcoming releases
- apply all stacks to the local state backend
  - `terramate --log-level info run -- terraform apply -auto-approve`

# restructuring

## problems

- backend config is code duplication
- providers config is code duplication
- updating providers is annoying and complicated
- the environment needs to be set per stack but could be identified based on hierarchy

## solutions:

### generate backend

- `generate_backend.tm.hcl.example` rename to enable backend generation
- run `terramate generate` to generate `gen_backend.tf` in each directory
- run `terramate run -- rm backend.tf` to remove old config

### generate providers

- `generate_providers.tm.hcl.example` rename to enable providers generation
- run `terramate generate` to generate `gen_providers.tf` in each directory

> - run `terramate run -- rm providers.tf` to remove old config

Reviewer: <img width="883" alt="image" src="https://github.com/terramate-io/terramate-plain-terraform-example/assets/106227170/40794a5b-761c-4d85-ac04-80a8a0e0388a">

you miss spelled providers in the file names

> - set global `tf_provider_null_version_constraint` on any level e.g. in stack or per environment in a e.g. `config.tm.hcl` file:
>   ```hcl
>   globals {
>     tf_provider_null_version_constraint = "~> 3.0"
>   }
>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- set global `tf_provider_null_version_constraint` on any level e.g. in stack or per environment in a e.g. `/environments/staging/config.tm.hcl` file:
  ```hcl
  globals {
    tf_provider_null_version_constraint = "3.0"
  }
  ```
    
```

Reviewer: tf_provider_null_version_constraint is already set to `~> 3.0` at the top level. It's clear what you mean by this, but worth being a little more explicit and showing an actual change that can be demonstrated
however, changing the provider here will require a re-init, so perhaps best not to

>   ```

Reviewer: and add 
```
- run `terramate generate` to see the changes
```
(I can't do this in the suggestion as it breaks github's markdown)
